---
layout: post
title: "Visiting and being visited"
date: 2017-05-01
categories:
- Travel
- Thoughts
description:
image: https://raw.githubusercontent.com/aliciateerl/site/master/_posts/picture/burma.JPG
image-sm: https://raw.githubusercontent.com/aliciateerl/site/master/_posts/picture/burma.JPG
---
The past month, April, has been one of continuous visits. First, I left - to Shanghai, where I spent a more or less a week walking around the city and exploring the charming neighborhoods touched by different cultures and influences, shikumen 石库门 dwellings in the French Concession gentrified with the creature comforts that tourists, and myself, unabashedly enjoy. Then, the visits to Beijing. My boyfriend came, my parents came, my sister came - at different times, but for a single day, they overlapped. Half of my world descended onto Beijing, colliding with this place that I’ve come to love and cherish for the past couple of months. What a surreal feeling that was. As someone who has lived my life segmented into very different time periods based on where I’m currently located, many of my experiences and relationships come tagged by place. I associate groups of people by where I’ve interacted with them - high school friends in Singapore, college friends in America, exchange friends in Salamanca, etc. When worlds collide, I find it extraordinary, surprising, dislocating.
<br> <br>
These visits, of course, were extremely beautiful. Both because having my loved ones around naturally makes everything warmer, but also because it reminds me that people are willing to fly 5 hours to visit the place that I’ve come to find a very important part of my life (and maybe somewhere in that mix, also, visit me). But, still, and possibly resultantly, it was also exhausting. For the two - three weeks that people were visiting, I was constantly showing people around. I wonder a little how much of this has to do with the visits being in China, which is an overwhelming place even if you’ve stayed there for a while, let alone if you’ve never been before. Beijing is loud, crowded, bustling, simultaneously so familiar and distinct from Singapore. but another part of it was the personal stakes I had put on these visits. I haven’t fully understood - or tried to understand - why I have enjoyed Beijing so thoroughly, but I know I do, and I knew that I wanted my loved ones to experience that for themselves. Having not quite figured out why I like Beijing (some speculations - occupying the liminal space between being foreign and looking local, cost of living, finding quiet corners in a loud street seems more rewarding, ethnic familiarity by virtue of appearance, supporting the ‘cultural underdog’?)  trying to show this to my family was almost like groping in the dark, trying to expose them to the fullest range of experiences I could. From eating in shopping malls to dining in Dali Courtyard, from walking around Wangfujing to getting drinks at Mai Bar - I tried to show them as much contrast as I could. At one point I made a list of different culinary types within China that they should check-off on their visit here (Beijing, Xinjiang, Sichuan, Yunnan etc.) almost because their visits, unrealistically, seemed to me like an opportunity to give a crash course introduction to China.
<br><br>
For two weeks I flitted between real life and travel life. Work could be delayed but not avoided entirely, and coming back to my dorms every night was a reminder that I couldn’t put everything completely on hold. The anxiety of knowing the tasks that lay ahead, compounded with feeling like a tour guide, meant that there were moments of real exhaustion. The two weeks were incredible, fun, but tiring, and there were moments that I wanted to sit down, sedentary, and do absolutely nothing. The moment it all ended, however, I felt a little empty. My two main takeaways at that point was an overwhelming feeling of being blessed, lucky that I had people willing to take time off work to visit me; and also the realization that this year in China seemed more and more like my life on pause. My loved ones, taking different flights to Beijing and leaving at different times, were all going to congregate back in Singapore, where ultimately, their lives were situated. And where my future will be. More and more, Beijing felt and feels like a pause. A meaningful, amazing, rare pause - but limbo, all the same.
