---
layout: post
title: "Taxi Conversations"
date: 2017-05-13
categories:
- Thoughts
description:
image: https://unsplash.it/2000/1200?image=1078
image-sm: https://unsplash.it/500/300?image=1078
---
<i>
Liminal: Occupying a position at, or on both sides of, a boundary or threshold.</i>
<br><br>
Two experiences with taxis in Beijing yesterday - the first, taking a regular 出租车 (taxi) from the west gate to The Crib at Gongti Beilu. I entered the cab and gave the driver the address in Mandarin; then, transitioned to English while speaking to two friends, clearly foreign. As cab rides usually go, we were talking about life and our weeks, catching up, chilling. Ten minutes in, I noticed the driver shooting me glances from the corner of his eye. After our conversation reached a lull, he asked “你学英语多少年了?”  (How long have you been studying English?) To which I clarify that I’m from Singapore - responding not to his question, but the unspoken assumption beneath this. As someone who is Chinese, who can blend in seamlessly in a throng of locals in Beijing, I am always mistaken as a citizen in this country. I can’t quite remember how I reacted to this when I first came in September - probably more emphatic in my clarification that *no, I am Singaporean* or that *yes, but I’m ~Singaporean Chinese~*. A lot of this is ultimately clouded by unspoken judgments of self-identity, of what it means to be Singaporean, of trying to navigate the slightly uncomfortable and murky distinctions between race, ethnicity, and citizenship in this country. Now, I see this more as an advantage. It invites curiosity and is an opening for conversation. I can often move, not seamlessly, but with ease, across different spaces and identities, not just because of language but because of the identities that are overlaid with this. I cannot help but wonder if, ten years from now, the image of the Chinese girl speaking fluent English will become commonplace.
<br><br>
Experience 2: taking a 快车 (private car from transportation app Didi) back from The Crib to my university. Hearing a very particular accent from my driver, I ask where he is from. “我是安徽的”, he responds. (I’m from Anhui.) “你呢?” (And you?) After all, he has heard me speak both English and Mandarin at this point. What results is one of the most interesting conversations I’ve had with a driver. I ask him all the questions I usually ask taxi drivers - how is life in Beijing? Do you prefer it to your hometown? What do you think of the changes?  He describes, with surprising acuity, about how this city has changed in the 7 years he’s been here. He tells me about changes the government implemented in 1998 that require policemen to arrive at a scene of crime within 5 minutes, and how this has resulted in a much, much safer China. “但是很多在海外的外国人还是以为中国不安全!” I respond. (But a lot of foreigners outside China still think China is very unsafe!) “哎哟，那时几十年前的中国!” (Ah, that’s China several tens of years ago!) Change surfaces as a main theme of our conversation. Change in China, in Beijing, of the dissolution of family values, and how ultimately, he is at heart, a 农村人. I ask him if, when he eventually moves back to Anhui, he’ll find it hard to adapt. Yes, he responds. Of course. *But you know, people like me, we’re the lower tier in society (底层人). We’ve been forced into so many different situations in our life, and the only thing we chase is survival. We’re the most adaptable people you can find. I’ve never worried about whether or not I’ll be able to adapt (适应那里的生活).*
